Wearable activity trackers

Wearable activity trackers keep tracks physical movement of a body and measures biometrics around the clock. It does have microcontroller, memory, battery, and sensors for acceleration, orientation, environmental(such as barometer), and heart rate monitoring. It also have some active devices of vibration and lighting for human interface purpose. A lot of activity trackers are available in the market with different levels of convenience, complexity and cost. In simplest for, it may come as a small dongle without any human interface but only available to access via wireless connection such as BT or NFC (Near-Field Communication). In complex and costly form, smart watch with luxury of built-in GPS and OLED display with handsfree calling and numerous apps of golf, cycling, and running,  etc.

	1. Throughput: since the values the sensors of a tracker provide needs to be processed to be a set of valuable data in the form of steps walked, miles run, or calories burned,  more features an activity tracker provides, more computation needed during and after the sensing/measurement. It may cause throughput issue  when multiple activities are occurs at the same time, such as taking a phone call while running up the hilly forest, then a GPS, BT, heart rate monitor, and 3-axis gyro sensors have to be fully working. It could be challenging for both microcontroller and battery.  However, If the main goal of a activity tracker is for monitoring of fitness and long term health care, the on-device computation can be moved to a computer or smartphone apps with downloaded data from a activity tracker, and the burden of throughput can be reduced. But, if someone is using activity tracker as a life saving device for early warning of heart failure, the decision algorithm must be executed on device real time, and the device's throughput issue could be critical.  
	2. Response: considering the nature of function of activity tracker, logging the activity of a human body and biometric, the question of how critical the response of activity tracker is depends on whether the device is used as a watchdog of critical health issue or not. If not, occasional missing of data due to computational overload can be acceptable. However, a delay of transmission of critical data to proper aid contact could be unacceptable.
	3. Testability: for the activity tracker, it is important to properly detect each activity event, store it locally and transmit to a designated host when connected via wireless or wired interface. For the measurement and test of individual event, the tracker SW need to have a test mode module for transmission of measured data at the time of event occurs. Also, for the best test result, it is better to have wireless transmission capability to guarantee the freedom of movement of the activity tracker from being tied to any HW interface. Overall test environment is a activity tracker is located in a place it is supposed to be, and a designated host nearby with a test system is connected via wireless/wired interface.
	4. Debuggability: unless a tracker has wireless/wired interface to host/test system, it is not easy to debug an error in an individual event. Similar to the case of testability.  
	5. Reliability: the goal of activity tracker is providing a pool of data that can be used as a basis of analytics for fitness and healthcare purpose. It should be operable in any usage environment in seamless manner. As a result, it need to be simple and minimal in design for all use cases. It must be operable and adjustable to log activity the tracker is supposed to be used in with minimal human intervention. 
	6. Memory space: though today's price of computational memory is substantially reduced, minimum BOM always been a top priority for the manufacturers. Considering trade-off between two issues, the size of memory depends on the configuration of a tracker and the features it provides.  
	7. Program Installation and Upgrade: as a basic features of trending activity tracker, a wireless interface between a tracker and a host provides an interface for installation and upgrade of SW. However, for a tracker such as simple step counter, a pedometer, with a simple numeric display, it may not have an way to upgrade the SW.
	8. Power consumption: since it is designed to be carried for a long time as possible, the size of battery of activity trackers is limited. As demands for more features and increased accuracy requires more computational powers, power consumption has been an top issue in design of activity tracker. The embedded wireless interface of GPS and modems are draining powers especially when the tracker is moving around the area where the received power of transmitter is weak. This is why the activity tracker with GPS or integrated cellular modem always lasts shorter than advertised. 
	9. Security: for the activity tracker which has wireless interface has security concern due to possible eavesdropping over the air. A hacking of data by a device close proximity is possible, and becomes more serious when more private data transmitted as more features an activity tracker provides. For the increased security, it may need to add security features which results in added cost and power consumption. 
	10. Cost: as discussed in memory space issue, cost is a trade-off issue as market provides variety levels of activity trackers from a smart watch type to a simple step counter. But once again BOM is always a matter of concern. 

